On Scientific Style and Ultimate Questions:
"To each scientific life, its own style, but each style defines a separate life"

On His Core Question:
"How can mind occur, human mind occur in the physical universe? We now know that the world is governed by physics. We now understand the way biology nestles comfortably within that. The issue is, how will mind do that as well?"

On Scientific Problems Choosing You:
"The scientific problem chooses you, you don't choose it... This is a genuine conversion experience."

On Hard Work:
"There is no substitute for working hard, very hard... Just like in professional sports, in professional music, on the concert stage, and so forth, the people who are out there and are going to get the gold, the people who are going to find out what the nature of the mind is, is the people who are not only brilliant, and creative, but work very hard."

On Dealing with Diversions:
"Diversions occur. They really do, and all you can do is to make them count."

On Failures:
"Embrace failure as part of success. I always like to say, you know, one good failure a week is just bracing and good for you."

On Being a Scientist:
"A scientist is a transducer from nature to theory. Don't kid yourself that you have very much to offer. Your problem is to go listen to nature, transduce what it has to say into a theory, but don't believe that the theory is coming from you."

On Scientific Technique:
"The science is in the technique. All else is commentary... All that lives, all that lives in science are those techniques, based on theory of course, but are those techniques which your scientific descendants must use to solve their problem."

On Interdisciplinary Work:
"If you want to work with the results of Field X, you've got to be a professional in X. To wit: no interdisciplinary activity."

On Personal Limitations:
"We are all flawed... We all carry our burden of incapacity. And the real thing about that is you want to know them like the back of your hand, and you don't want to fight them."

On Daily Success:
"If each day you spend doing science, OK, is full, and interesting, and has its local successes, what more do you want?"

On New Developments:
"In all of the experience I've had, they always get started by evolution... Or they come from chance... They do not happen by design."

On His Father's Advice:
"Keep your eye on the main chance."

References:

https://youtu.be/hCe0ZPGap_k?si=hnv05_p0SuYOFR0w